# Direct Cache Simulator

This is a cache simulator program written in C++ that simulates the behavior of a cache memory system. The simulator reads a memory trace file and outputs statistics about the cache hits and misses, as well as the overall hit rate.

## How to use

To use the cache simulator, follow these steps:

- Change the directory in the makefile.vars file to match your directory.
- Use the command make to compile the programs.
- Before running the executable, make sure to have the pintrace.out file present in the same directory.
- Use the following command to run the simulator and adjust the parameters to suit your needs:

`./bin/cache_sim <cache mode: wb|wt> <file_name> <cache size> <block size> <associativity> <number of sets> <trace level>`
- <cache mode: wb|wt>: the cache mode (write-back or write-through)
- <file_name>: the name of the memory trace file
- <cache size>: the size of the cache in bytes (e.g. 1024)
- <block size>: the size of a cache block in bytes (e.g. 2048)
- <associativity>: the associativity of the cache (e.g. 2)
- <number of sets>: the number of sets in the cache (e.g. 4)
- <trace level>: the trace level (e.g. 8)

For example:

`./bin/cache_sim wb ./pintrace.out 1024 2048 2 4 8 16`

This will run the cache simulator with the specified parameters.

## Memory Trace Files

The memory trace file should be in the format generated by the Pin tool. You can use Pin to generate the memory trace file by running your application with the Pin tool and specifying the -trace option. For example:


`pin -t pin-3.17/source/tools/ManualExamples/obj-intel64/cachesim.so -o pintrace.out -- /path/to/your/application`

## Output

After running the simulator, the program will output statistics about the cache hits and misses, as well as the overall hit rate:


```
Total Misses: 15532
Total Hits: 21360733
Memory Read Access Attempts: 16873908
Memory Write Access Attempts: 4502357
Total Memory Access Attempts: 21376265
Memory Read Access: 15532
Memory Write Access: 8216
Total # of cycles for cache read: 33747816
Total # of cycles for cache write: 18009428
Total # of cycles for cache access: 51757244
Total # of cycles for memory read: 124256
Total # of cycles for memory write: 131456
Total # of cycles for memory access: 255712 
```

## License

This program is licensed under the MIT License.
